# Self Balancing Robot
  The purpose of this project is to build a self-balancing robot that stabilize itself and mechanically correct its position without collapsing. The main wireless connectivity such as Bluetooth module and Wi-Fi dongle will be use in this project to establish a wireless connection between robot, android app and internet webpage. An Emotional robot head with pi camera will be add on top of the self-balancing robot. There is no specific budget for the project but the project should cost below €100 per person.   

  The self-balancing robot require a maths filter in order to combine the signals returned by the sensors. PID controller is implemented to calculate the amount of force needed to recover the angle of tilt so that the robot will move in the same direction as the robot is falling. Google Speech Recognition is used to allow user to execute program through command. OpenCV is used for color tracking purpose.    

  Unfortunately, it was not possible to drive the balancing robot around as further research and study are needed in order to make it move or spin. The self-balancing robot is able to balance only without the head.  It was believe that the requirement to control the robot exceeds the maximum performance of the robot. For instance, the weight of the robot might be too heavy and the motor speed is limited. In addition, almost all mass is located at the head part and the head is leaning over one side causing the robot unable to recover back quickly to its origin point. 

  Various factors should be considered when designing the hardware in exchange for maximising the performance of the robot. 
